---
layout: post
title:  "An Excerpt From The Book I'm Working On, To See How A Larger Post Works"

---

This narrative, like all good American soccer narratives, starts with snow.

Its associations, for us in the United States at least, tend toward the soothing and the positive. We think about the hush and quiet that often accompanies it, celebrate it in Christmas songs as a harbinger of Christmas magic – whether we’re in an air-conditioned Florida mall or in rainy Seattle or occasionally-winter-weather-crippled Dallas. When it transforms the landscape, it’s usually doing in it a white, idyllic, snow-day-making way, over the course of a good night’s sleep when temperatures drop, precipitation falls, and the Bing Crosby in our heads croons that he’s dreaming of a White Random Surprise Day Off Of Work.
 
There are, however, a handful of American cities in which snow comes often enough and heavy enough to where it’s not magical at all, but merely something to push out of the way. In snow-larded cities like Anchorage and Buffalo, where “Let It Snow” is just stating the obvious, there’s a ready armada of snowplows to make the streets passable, citizens with snow shovels and appropriate layers who are accustomed to if not happy about literally digging out their cars, and the snow mixes with road salt and oil and dirt and city grit to become a gray, slushy, crap-patchwork mess lining an urban grid. These cities’ parks and backyards may still be a relative Winter Wonderland, but the cities themselves just become places to trudge through with purpose.
 
Denver’s a city where it snows, routinely, even engendering a certain civic pride. After all, snow brings tourists to Denver, or more specifically, the ski resorts just west of the city, and they land at an airport that manages to be one of the nation’s principal airline hubs despite an average annual snowfall of just under five feet. It’s also, of course, known as the Mile High City, and although there are several other American cities that approach these altitudes (Salt Lake City, Albuquerque, El Paso), Denver’s got the reputation for thinner air and its effect on athletes.
 
So when the U.S. soccer powers-that-be scheduled the first home World Cup qualifier -- circling Friday, March 22, 2013 on the calendar and then assigning it to Denver – there was certainly some gamesmanship involved. 

That is to say, they picked the best-positioned American city to give the Yanks home-field advantage against a Central American team (in this case, Costa Rica): High altitude, potential for snow, and definitely potential for cold weather, especially with an evening start time. Also, it being a Friday night game didn’t hurt, making it more likely for boisterous fans to make the trek, only missing a day of work and having the whole weekend to get back home. Also, Denver has a soccer-specific stadium that seats 20,000 -- and, according to the 2010 census, there are only 1000 Costa Ricans in the entire state. 
 
But, in choosing the second day of spring, they couldn’t have possibly had a blizzard in mind, right? That’d be asking for the soccer gods for a suspicious amount of home-field advantage. 

